---
layout: bare
title: Curriculum Vitae
education:
 - org: University of Agder (UiA) 
   from: 2003
   to: 2006
   desc: Bachelor's degree in Information Technology and Information Systems
 - org: Stephen F. Austin High School
   from: 1997
   to: 2000
experience:
 - company: Embriq AS
   position: System Developer
   from: October 2012
   to: Present
   desc: 
   - Core developer on the Quant Platform. Quant is the most modern solution in the marked for efficient and low cost operation monitoring related to AMR and Smart Metering infrastructure and data. 
   more: "Core technologies: Java, Spring, JPA, JMS, WS, JavaScript"
 - company: Cisco Systems
   position: Software Engineer II
   from: October 2010
   to: September 2012
   desc: 
   - Core developer on TMS Provisioning Extension. Focus areas include architecture and API design, scalability and user experience.
   more: "Core technologies: Java, Spring, Jersey, Ruby, CoffeeScript"
 - company: Know IT Objectnet AS
   position: Consultant
   from: August 2008
   to: October 2010
   desc: 
    - Created the Seam Maven Refimpl project hosted on google. This project is the officially sanctioned initiative for Seam 2 + Maven project template. 
    - Core developer on the http://www.yellowrate.no project. Mainly contributing to the server side data analytics logic, application framework layout, and infrastructure setup for high scalability with dependable and cost efficient use of cloud services including AWS EC2, S3, EBS, EIP. 
    - Core developer and maintainer of SkatteFUNN project at The Research Council of Norway. This project is a system for distributing funds via tax relief. The system includes an ESB, an outer and inner sone of web servers. Transports via JMS using ActiveMQ. Web interface built with struts. A swing client.
 - company: Community Reborn AS
   position: System Developer
   from: 2006
   to: July 2008
   desc: 
    - Core developer on the CommunityR platform, with focus on scalability and performance including advanced server configurations, user web interface, data modelling, build systems and testing. The platform is a social networking platform built using Seam, EJB3, JPA, and JSF w/ facelets.
    - Set up performance testing and monitoring using Amazon EC2, enabling a cost effective testing framework that could be set up in a short amount of time. This setup used a set of JMeter servers hitting JSF web interfaces with variable high load and measuring the performance of all aspects of the architecture using Cacti. 
    - Created a JavaScript framework built upon prototype.js for inclusion of dynamic content into static pages, so as to enable caching of portal pages, while serving dynamic fragments as portlets. The framework handles requests logically based on cookies and destination, and includes a callback facility to enable customization of the resulting fragment upon request completion.
    - Set up advanced server architecture aimed at extremely high load and availability. The architectures included apache http w/ mod_proxy and php, HAProxy, nginx, JBoss AS, MySQL with multiple-master replication, amazon ec2, s3 and cloudfront.
certifications:
 - date: September 2014
   title: Certified Scrum Product Owner
   org: Scrum Alliance
 - date: January 2011
   title: Certified Professional, Java SE 6 Programmer
   org: Oracle
open-source:
 - name: Shrinkwrap & Arquillian
   desc: Arquillian is an innovative and highly extensible testing platform for the JVM that enables developers to easily create automated integration, functional and acceptance tests for Java middleware.
   url: http://arquillian.org
 - name: Jersey
   desc: Jersey RESTful Web Services framework is open source, production quality, framework for developing RESTful Web Services in Java that provides support for JAX-RS APIs and serves as a JAX-RS (JSR 311 & JSR 339) Reference Implementation.
   url: http://jersey.java.net/
 - name: Constretto
   desc: Constretto is as configuration management framework for Java applications. It allows you to “tag” configuration values, so that Constretto could choose the correct value at runtime.
   url: https://github.com/constretto/constretto-core
 - name: Testem
   desc: Unit testing in Javascript can be tedious and painful, but Testem makes it so easy that you will actually want to write tests.
   url: https://github.com/airportyh/testem
 - name: gitr
   desc: recursive git command line tool
   url: https://github.com/kenglxn/gitr
 - name: mvnr
   desc: recursive maven command line tool
   url: https://github.com/kenglxn/mvnr
 - name: QRGen
   desc: a simple QRCode generation api for java built on top ZXING
   url: https://github.com/kenglxn/QRGen
 - name: QBE
   desc: Flexible JPA entity querying using example objects.
   url: https://github.com/kenglxn/QueryByExample
 - name: Civu
   desc: a simple ruby CLI for cloning git repos from jenkins views
   url: https://github.com/kenglxn/civu
references:
 - name: Stig Murberg
   title: Technical Lead
   company: Cisco Systems
   phone: 45 25 07 40
 - name: Tommy Johannessen
   title: Founder
   company: Community Reborn AS
   phone: 91 81 98 60
 - name: Leif Olsen
   title: Senior Consultant
   company: Know IT Objectnet
   phone: 91 81 18 73
 - name: Parthiv Malani
   title: Senior Member of Technical Staff
   company: VMware
   recommendation: "I have worked with Ken at Cisco's Telepresence Technology group for about a year. We worked together on Telepresence Management Provisioning Extensions project. He was one of the main contributors to the project and have implemented various features in UI, backend as well we build and deployment modules. Common libraries developed by Ken were used by all modules of the project and were highly scalable and robust. Ken possesses excellent coding and design skills and he is always up to date with latest technologies and his solutions are top notch. Ken's technical expertise combined with his attitude working with other members of the team will make him a great asset for any organization he works for"
 - name: Manav Verma
   title: Principal Software Engineer
   company: Zscaler
   recommendation: "I have worked with Ken on Telepresence provisioning. During this period i have come to appreciate him as a very productive and efficient contributor. Even more, he has always striven to achieve more with his proactive maneuvers specifically in the form of self developed tools/libraries for the team's benefit. His capacity to grasp information and his undying hunger for more stands him apart from the crowd. With his vast experience, a sharp intellect and an ever increasing knowledge in the technology domain, Ken is an asset for every employer."
 - name: Adrian Migacz
   title: Program Manager
   company: Cisco
   recommendation: "Ken brought great energy, focus, and coding skills to the Telepresence team in Oslo. He quickly established himself as a leader on the development team and was always willing to help others when needed. Ken played a vital role during our scrums and helped our team implement an agile process during the product's development lifecycle. Working alongside Ken was a great experience and I am definitely working forward to interacting with him professionally in the future."
 - name: Tor Eric Sandvik
   title: Co-founder 
   company: Scelto AS
   recommendation: "I have known Ken for 2 years. We worked together on Yellowrate project and Java, Joomla, Seam framework. Ken brought amazing knowledge of Seam, Amazon EC2, intelliJ and Java to the team. He is one of the most knowledgeable persons I have met in this area. Ken is always positive and enthusiastic in his work. I would love to work with Ken again!"
 - name: Syver Enstad
   title: Programmer
   company: Tandberg ASA
   recommendation: "Ken is a dedicated software craftsman with a well rounded skillset covering both backend/frontend software and process/deployment tools. He is always helpful and inspiring to work with and I miss having him on our team"
 - name: Jon Tore Hafstad
   title: Front-end developer
   company: Lesson Nine GmbH
   recommendation: "Ken is a social and good colleague. He is determined and not afraid of be clear and dives into any problem. Ken learns quickly and has a lot of competence he is easy to reach out to for help and work together with (especially when it comes to pair programming)"
---

<address class="text-center">
  <strong>Ken Gullaksen</strong><br>
  01.05.1982 <br>
  (+47) 47 23 90 82<br>
  ken@glxn.net
</address>


h2. Education

<hr />
<dl class="dl-horizontal">
  {% for ed in page.education %}
  <dt><strong>{{ ed.from }} - {{ ed.to }}</strong></dt>
  <dd>
    <strong>{{ ed.org }}</strong>
    <p>{{ ed.desc }}</p>
  </dd>
  {% endfor %}
</dl>

h2. Relevant Experience

<hr />
<dl class="dl-horizontal">
  {% for exp in page.experience %}
  <dt><strong>{{ exp.from }} - {{ exp.to }}</strong></dt>
  <dd>
    <strong>{{ exp.position }},</strong> {{ exp.company }}
    {% for desc in exp.desc %}
    <p>{{ desc }}</p>
    {% endfor %}
    <p>{{ exp.more }}</p>
  </dd>
  {% endfor %}
</dl>

h2. Certifications

<hr />
<dl class="dl-horizontal">
  {% for cert in page.certifications %}
  <dt><strong>{{ cert.date }}</strong></dt>
  <dd>
    <strong>{{ cert.title }},</strong> {{ cert.org }}
  </dd>
  {% endfor %}
</dl>

h2. Open Source Contributions

<hr />
<dl class="dl-horizontal">
  {% for contrib in page.open-source %}
  <dt><strong>{{ contrib.name }}</strong></dt>
  <dd>
    <strong>{{ contrib.url }}</strong> 
    <p>{{ contrib.desc }}</p>
  </dd>
  {% endfor %}
</dl>

h2. References

<hr />
<dl class="dl-horizontal">
  {% for ref in page.references %}
  <dt><strong>{{ ref.name }}</strong></dt>
  <dd>
    {% if ref.recommendation %}    
    <blockquote class="blockquote-reverse">
      <p>{{ ref.recommendation }}</p>
      <footer>{{ ref.name }} {{ ref.title }} @ <cite>{{ ref.company }}</cite></footer>
    </blockquote>
    {% else %}
    {{ ref.title }}, {{ ref.company }}, {{ ref.phone }}  
    {% endif %}
  </dd>
  <br>
  {% endfor %}
  
</dl>