---
layout: post
title: Pomodoro Technique and my idea for a decent android app
published: false
---

I'm a big fan of the "pomodoro technique":http://www.pomodorotechnique.com/
The pomodoro technique is basically working for a set amount of time, then taking small breaks before returning to work.

A couple of the reasons i like it are:
# it boosts focus
# reduces stress
# prevents me from sitting still for a long time without break
# forces me to do something else, like take a 5 minute walk (good for health)
# gives the brain time to work for you, actually enabling me to sometimes see that I'm on the wrong track early.
# Can easily be combined with agile methods

There are probably more things that I have forgotten right now, but my main point is that I think it is a good way to work.

I currently use "ChromoDoro":https://chrome.google.com/extensions/detail/edhkjecdcakijjmlelnjjiohjmlaikhb, a great plugin, except for one thing: It's a plugin. I don't want my break to be spent in front of the computer, but rather on a walk to the watering hole or similar, and taking the computer with me is not an option.

So how about a nice pomodoro plugin for android, there are some out there which can be downloaded, but i figure "Hey, what a great opportunity to get introduced to android application development " :)

I have added a repository on github at "http://github.com/kenglxn/Pomodroid":http://github.com/kenglxn/Pomodroid, and will be adding code to it as I find the time.

Here are my user stories so far:
* as a user I should be able to set pomodoro time, and break time, so that I can have the timer fit my workhabits.
* as a user I should be able to set the pomodoro timer to vibrate, so that I wont disturb my co-workers with my pomodoro weirdness.
* as a user I should be able to start the timer so that my worksessions can begin.
* as a user I should be able to stop the session before timer runs out, so that I can handle interruptions.
* as an application I should pause the pomodoro timer when the user recieves a phonecall, so that I can account for interruptions.
* as a user I should be asked to give a reason for the interruption, so that I can later review my flow efficiency
* as a user I should be able to access statistics of my interruptions, so that I can reflect on my flow efficiency, and perhaps find ways to improve it.

These user stories and more will be added to the "issues":http://github.com/kenglxn/Pomodroid/issues section of "Pomodroid project":http://github.com/kenglxn/Pomodroid.
