---
layout: post
title: It's Been A While
---

**Disclaimer: This post will not be very technical, if at all. But a rarity of a personal nature.**

It's been a while since my last post, and a lot has happened since then.

My blog has always just been a collection of stuff I find interesting and useful. Sometimes I even just   write posts for my own consumption. this way I can always come back to them when needed, which I have on several occasions. Unfortunately I have been to lazy and undisciplined to write down lessons learned. I intend on changing this going forward.

On a personal level, my family has grown, my marriage going on 8 years is still good and strong, but not without investment. I now have two girls of 3 and 6 years, which I prioritze, and I have started investing more time in my martial arts. I ended up graduating for my brown belt in shotokan karate, before deciding that I wanted to pursue skills in brazilian jiu jitsu, of which I spend most of my training time on nowadays.

I have reflected a bit, and come to the conclusion that I probably do not have the same amount of energy for side projects as I did some years ago. Or maybe my life is just filled with more stuff than before. Either way, I have to prioritize my time. This website/blog is one of the things I will pioritize to keep maintained. New posts will come, although they may not come very often. I also intend to keep the site alive, as I have for the past 10 years.

I hope I get time to write about all the cool stuff I have been working on the last couple of years. A lot of it is propriatary/non-disclosable, so I will need to make fictional examples, even so, I think some lessons can be jotted down for memory's sake if nothing else.

For the sake of remembering/teasing:
On a professional level I have worked on:
* ruby
* node
* ember
* react
* cqrs/event sourcing
* graphql

on a playful/personal level I have worked on:
* machine learning
* SwiftUI
* Elm
* Kotlin

Hopefully I will be able to translate some of this into something useful in the form of quick reads in the not so distant future.

Thanks for your time.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/araU0fZj6oQ" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>